---
title: "Characterizing Defective Configuration Scripts Used For Continuous Deployment"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/icst2018
date: 2018-02-15
venue: 'International Conference of Software Testing, Validation, and Veriification (ICST)'
paperurl: '/files/papers/icst2018_tm.pdf'
authors: Akond Rahman and Laurie Williams 
year: 2018
index: 11
--- 
In software engineering, validation and verification (V&V) resources are limited and characterization of defective software source files can help in efficiently allocating V&V resources. Similar to software source files, defects occur in the scripts used to automatically manage configurations and software deployment infrastructure, often known as infrastructure as code (IaC) scripts. Defects in IaC scripts can have dire consequences, for example, creating large-scale system outages. Identifying the characteristics of defective IaC scripts can help in mitigating these defects by allocating V&V efforts efficiently based upon these characteristics. *The objective of this paper is to help software practitioners to prioritize validation and verification efforts for infrastructure as code (IaC) scripts by identifying the characteristics of defective IaC scripts*. Researchers have previously extracted text features to characterize defective software source files written in general purpose programming languages. We investigate if text features can be used to identify properties that characterize defective IaC scripts. We use two text mining techniques to extract text features from IaC scripts: the bag-of-words technique, and the term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) technique. Using the extracted features and applying grounded theory we characterize defective IaC scripts. We also use the text features to build defect prediction models with tuned statistical learners. We mine open source repositories from Mozilla, Openstack, and Wikimedia Commons, to construct three case studies and evaluate our methodology. We identify three properties that characterize defective IaC scripts: filesystem operations, infrastructure provisioning, and managing user accounts. Using the bag-of-word technique, we observe a median F-Measure of 0.74, 0.71, and 0.73, respectively, for Mozilla, Openstack, and Wikimedia Commons. Using the TF-IDF technique, we observe a median F-Measure of 0.72, 0.74, and 0.70, respectively, for Mozilla, Openstack, and Wikimedia Commons.  